README.md, before:

# Getting Started
All that you need to get started with the examples is Git and Ruby (1.8 or 1.9). Below you find the basic instructions for 
an easy installation on Mac, Linux and Windows. 

## on Mac

### Git
The easiest way for managing packages on Mac OS X is [Homebrew](http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/)

To install it open a terminal and paste the following command:

    /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/gist/323731)"

Once you have installed Homebrew you can install Git with the following command: 

    brew install git

### Ruby
Ruby 1.8.7 is preinstalled on Mac OS X Lion (Tiger ships with Ruby 1.8.2 and Leopard with 1.8.6). If you want to install
the latest version of Ruby or if you want to manage multiple versions, the best option is to install [RVM](https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/) (Ruby Version Manager).

Open the terminal and run the following commands:


    bash < <(curl -s https://raw.github.com/wayneeseguin/rvm/master/binscripts/rvm-installer )
    rvm install 1.9.2
    rvm use 1.9.2 --default


This will install the latest version 1.9.2 and making it as the default Ruby interpreter

For more information you can check [this page](http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/).
 
## on Linux

### Git
On Debian Linux (like Ubuntu) you can install Git using the apt package manager. Open a terminal and paste the following code: 

    apt-get install git-core


### Ruby
On Debian Linux (like Ubunutu) you can use the apt package manager to install Ruby: 

    $ sudo apt-get install ruby1.9.1

Note that this will install version 1.9.2 and not 1.9.1

## on Windows
###Git
Installing Git is pretty easy. Just download and insall the package called [msysGit](http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/downloads/list).

###Ruby
The easiest way to install Ruby on Windows is to use the self-contained installer [RubyInstaller](http://rubyinstaller.org/). Just run the installer and you are done. If you are planning to use Ruby on Rails, you should consider the [RailsInstaller](http://railsinstaller.org/)

# Using the examples
All the examples are contained in a single Git repository that is hosted on GitHub. Here you can find the instructions how to 
clone the repository and launch the examples. 

## Configuring GitHub

The first step is to configure your Git with your GitHub account. If you haven't done it yet, create an account at [GitHub](http://www.github.com)

Once you have created the account you can follow these guides for configuring your Git: [Mac](http://help.github.com/mac-set-up-git/), [Linux](http://help.github.com/linux-set-up-git/) and [Windows](http://help.github.com/win-set-up-git/)

## Cloning the repository

You can download the examples by simply cloning [this GitHub repository](https://github.com/aaltowebapps/MobileWebAppsExamples). Open a terminal and run the following code: 

     git clone git@github.com:aaltowebapps/MobileWebAppsExamples.git

This will create a directory called `MobileWebAppsExamples` which contains all the examples in separate subdirectories. If you want you can rename it to something else. 

If in the future you need to fetch the changes from the server, you can run the following commands in a terminal:
	
	cd MobileWebAppsExamples
	git pull
	
## Updating the gems

In the directory `MobileWebAppsExamples` there is a file called `Gemfile` that contains all the additional modules (called gems) that
are required to run the examples. 

The first thing is to install [Bundler](http://gembundler.com/) that is tool for managing application's dependencies for Ruby.
You can install it by running the following commands in a terminal: 

    gem install bundler

Once you have install Bundler you can install the additional gems by running the following commands: 

	cd MobileWebAppsExamples
	bundle install
		
## Launching the examples 
Each subdirectory contains a seprate example. Most of examples are based on [Sinatra](http://www.sinatrarb.com/) and you can launch the server with the following command: 
    
    ruby server.rb

Commit message:

Updates to Development tools instructions

README.md, after:

# Getting Started
All that you need to get started with the examples is [Git](http://git-scm.com/) and [Ruby](http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/) (1.8.7 or later) with [Bundler](http://gembundler.com/) for dependency management. 

Below you find the basic instructions for an easy installation on Mac, Linux and Windows. 

## on Mac

### Git
The easiest way is to use [Git OSX installer](http://code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/)

#### Installing Git with Homebrew
Git can be also be installed using [Homebrew](http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/) package manager.

To install Homebrew open a terminal and paste the following command:

    /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/gist/323731)"

Once you have installed Homebrew you can install Git with the following command: 

    brew install git

#### Git GUIs
* [SourceTree](http://www.sourcetreeapp.com/) 
* [GitHub for Mac](http://mac.github.com/)


### Ruby
Ruby 1.8.7 is preinstalled on Mac OS X 10.6 and later (Snow Leopard and Lion). You just need to:

1. Update RubyGems: `sudo gem update -system`
2. Install bundler: `sudo gem install bundler`

#### RVM
If you want to install the latest version of Ruby or if you want to manage multiple versions, the best option is to install [RVM](https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/) (Ruby Version Manager).

Open the terminal and run the following commands:


    bash < <(curl -s https://raw.github.com/wayneeseguin/rvm/master/binscripts/rvm-installer )
    rvm install 1.9.2
    rvm use 1.9.2 --default


This will install the latest version 1.9.2 and making it as the default Ruby interpreter

For more information you can check [this page](http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/).
 
## on Linux

### Git
On Debian Linux (like Ubuntu) you can install Git using the apt package manager. Open a terminal and paste the following code: 

    sudo apt-get install git-core


### Ruby
On Debian Linux (like Ubunutu) you can use the apt package manager to install Ruby. You need to install Ruby with development tools (-dev): 

    sudo apt-get install ruby1.9.1-dev

Note that this will install version 1.9.2 and not 1.9.1

## on Windows
###Git
Installing Git is pretty easy. Just download and install the package called [msysGit](http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/downloads/list).

###Ruby
1. Install Ruby **1.8.7** using [RubyInstaller](http://rubyinstaller.org/). If you are planning to use Ruby on Rails, you should consider the [RailsInstaller](http://railsinstaller.org/)
2. Install [Ruby Development Kit](https://github.com/oneclick/rubyinstaller/wiki/Development-Kit) needed for some gems
3. Install bundler: 'gem install bundler'

Tip: To make sure the correct Ruby version is used in command line, open command promt using the “Start command prompt with Ruby” from the Ruby 1.8.7 subfolder in Start-menu

# Using the examples
All the examples are contained in a single Git repository that is hosted on GitHub. Here you can find the instructions how to 
clone the repository and launch the examples. 

## Configuring GitHub

The first step is to configure your Git with your GitHub account. If you haven't done it yet, create an account at [GitHub](http://www.github.com)

Once you have created the account you can follow these guides for configuring your Git: [Mac](http://help.github.com/mac-set-up-git/), [Linux](http://help.github.com/linux-set-up-git/) and [Windows](http://help.github.com/win-set-up-git/)

## Cloning the repository

You can download the examples by simply cloning [this GitHub repository](https://github.com/aaltowebapps/MobileWebAppsExamples). Open a terminal and run the following code: 

     git clone git@github.com:aaltowebapps/MobileWebAppsExamples.git

This will create a directory called `MobileWebAppsExamples` which contains all the examples in separate subdirectories. If you want you can rename it to something else. 

If in the future you need to fetch the changes from the server, you can run the following commands in a terminal:
	
	cd MobileWebAppsExamples
	git pull
	
## Updating the gems

In the directory `MobileWebAppsExamples` there is a file called `Gemfile` that contains all the additional modules (called gems) that
are required to run the examples. 

The first thing is to install [Bundler](http://gembundler.com/) that is tool for managing application's dependencies for Ruby.
You can install it by running the following commands in a terminal: 

    gem install bundler

Once you have install Bundler you can install the additional gems by running the following commands: 

	cd MobileWebAppsExamples
	bundle install
		
## Launching the examples 
Each subdirectory contains a seprate example. Most of examples are based on [Sinatra](http://www.sinatrarb.com/) and you can launch the server with the following command: 
    
    ruby server.rb
